#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%%stopskip
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begin{abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Large physical systems are increasingly prevalent, and designing estimation
 strategies for them has become both a practical necessity and a complicated
 problem.
 Their sensing infrastructure is usually ad-hoc, and the estimate of interest
 is often a complex function of the data.
 At the same time, computing power is rapidly becoming a commodity.
 We show with the study of two estimation tasks in urban transportation
 how the proper design of algorithms can lead to huge gains in scalability
 compared to existing solutions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A common problem in trip planning is to make a given deadline such as arriving
 at the airport within an hour.
 Existing routing services optimize for the expected time of arrival, but
 do not provide the most 
\emph on
reliable
\emph default
 route, which accounts for the variability in travel times.
 Providing statistical information is even harder for trips in cities which
 undergo a lot of variability.
 This thesis aims at building scalable algorithms for inferring statistical
 distributions of travel time over very large road networks, using GPS points
 from vehicles in real-time.
 We consider two complementary algorithms that differ in the characteristics
 of the GPS data input, and in the complexity of the model: a simpler streaming
 Expectation-Maximization algorithm that leverages very large volumes of
 extremely noisy data, and a novel Markov Model-Gaussian Markov Random Field
 that extracts global statistical correlations from high-frequency, privacy-pres
erving trajectories.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These two algorithms have been implemented and deployed in a pipeline that
 takes streams of GPS data as input, and produces distributions of travel
 times accessible as output.
 This pipeline is shown to scale on a large cluster of machines and can
 process tens of millions of GPS observations from an area that comprises
 hundreds of thousands of road segments.
 This is to our knowledge the first research framework that considers in
 an integrated fashion the problem of statistical estimation of traffic
 at a very large scale from streams of GPS data.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
end{abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
