#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%%stopskip
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The clock was ticking with a deadly punctuality at each second, answered
 only by the howling shriek of the coffee machine brewing more of its potent
 liquid.
 The fingers were dancing on the keyboards like grains of rice on a drum.
 Pairs of eyes were staring at abstract charts and symbols written in a
 cabalistic language.
 Sometimes, a sentence would drop, more precise than a scalpel in the surgical
 room: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Experiment one is running.
 I changed the value of sigma to 0.2 and reduced the number of machines
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 The confirmation would come a second later: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Wait.
 I am compiling
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Wait.
 The laptops were scrambling to decipher the cryptic instructions that their
 masters could barely apprehend.
 One hour still before the conference deadline.
 One hour before a clock announces that it is midnight in the Samoa Islands.
 One hour before a digital Cerberus decides that the academic Styx is closed
 for business until next year.
 The sweat starts to glue the fingers to the keyboard.
 Suddenly, the light shuts off, and the pale glow of the emergency light
 weakly warms the room.
 No more electricity.
 No more internet.
 And seventeen minutes before the deadline with a half-fleshed article that
 looks like Frankenstein's monster.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How did things get to this point?
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Doing a Ph.D.
 is like skydiving for the first time: your friends who have done it before
 assure it is a thrilling and safe experience, and the safety record of
 the club is spotless, so you sign up, convinced by the arguments.
 Once aboard the plane, you start to think it was not such a brilliant idea
 after all.
 This thought climaxes when you get pushed out of the aircraft.
 The mid-air flight passes like a short stint inside a hypersonic tumble
 dryer.
 Once you have landed, you start to reconstitute the process that lead to
 this decision.
 Who was behind all that?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My first thanks go to my family, in particular my parents Soleine and William
 Hunter, for their understanding throughout all these years, and for teaching
 me that technological progress should first and foremost be to the benefit
 of men and women.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My two co-advisers have been a constant support in this endeavor.
 I would like first to thank my co-adviser, Alexandre Bayen, for his constant
 encouragements.
 Ever since we first met between an elevator door and a phone call during
 visit day, his enthusiasm for research and his vision of a enlightened
 society has been gospel to me.
 Alex was kind enough to let me explore traffic datasets under the prism
 of statistical methods that bore few resemblance with his domain of expertise.
 Under his guidance, we launched a collaboration with the AMPLab that profoundly
 shaped my research interests and still bears fruits to this day.
 In a more relaxed setting, Alex is a masterful entertainer and a most delightfu
l accomplice around a table at Jupiter's.
 Alex's support was invaluable in more somber times as well.
 Although I have not made use of his offer to call at any time of the day
 or night, I am still keeping this option in mind.
 Thank you for the comic books, Alex.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I still remember the first email of my co-adviser Pieter Abbeel, back in
 Stanford more than seven years ago, asking if I would like to collaborate
 on doing some aerobatics with a toy helicopter.
 Little did I know that this meeting would have so momentous consequences.
 Pieter ignited a passion for research that continues.
 Pieter conveys contagious enthusiasm for exploring novel ground and for
 making cool demonstrations that express the full power of the research
 behind it.
 After Pieter graduated to an Assistant Professorship at Berkeley, he convinced
 me it would be a great place for doing a Ph.D.
 Back then, I was unsure if I was more suited for an academic career, but
 Pieter's energy and trust were major factors in coming here.
 When the time came to devise new models and methods, Pieter's sharp eye
 and keen attention to details prevented us from time-consuming pitfalls
 in numerous occasions.
 Our repeated conversations were instrumental in what became Chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chapter:pif"

\end_inset

 and Chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chapter:kdd"

\end_inset

.
 We still need to have this beer, Pieter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Michael Franklin has been a great source of encouragement in harnessing
 the power of the cloud.
 Back then, it was clear that we needed computers.
 A lot of computers.
 Thanks to the impulse of Mike, the frightening prospect of rewriting everything
 for distributed computing became a joyful endeavor in Scala and Spark.
 I was at first a bit dubious that the systems community would find a (car)
 traffic system of interest, but our discussions lead to more and more material
 that eventually became the SOCC article.
 Thanks to Mike, the 
\emph on
Mobile Millennium
\emph default
 project was a first class citizen within the AMPLab and lead to a number
 of great collaborations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When Alex told me I should talk with a new faculty in Civil Engineering,
 Alexei Pozdnukov struck me by his understanding of very large systems and
 his command of the challenges involved in using physical data at a very
 large scale.
 Through our conversations, Alexei has been always kept the big picture
 in mind.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many thanks to my first research adviser, Andrew Ng.
 Andrew has always pushed me to achieve the best, and would believe in accomplis
hments that even I would not think possible.
 Thank you Andrew for letting me share my passion for Artificial intelligence
 as a CS221 Teaching Assistant, which was my first teaching experience.
 Andrew was keen on giving challenging and rewarding assignments, and making
 me discover the joys of research.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Eric Feron was my first contact with research and I still fondly remember
 my stay at his lab in Georgia Tech.
 Working with the helicopter was a fun and challenging problem, and sometimes
 even a close shave.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
During all this effort, the technical support of various groups, and especially
 the California Center for Intelligent Transportation and PATH, have been
 essential in dealing with all the subtleties of traffic data.
 In particular, not much would have been accomplished without the dedicated
 support of Ryan Herring and Saneesh Apte.
 Ryan was patient enough to explain the foolhardy first year the basics
 of collaborative software engineering.
 His work on the 
\emph on
Mobile Millennium 
\emph default
infrastructure was a foundational step for all the research presented in
 the subsequent pages, and his authorship is reflected in the copyright
 notices of the code released along this thesis.
 Saneesh also had a determining influence throughout our (sometimes opiniated)
 conversations about data management and code styles, and his help was crucial
 in collecting the data.
 Thanks to Joe Butler, who pushed me to implement the map-matching code
 in a proper manner.
 What I believed back then to be a pointless exercise of coding style became
 one of my proudest engineering accomplishments, and in retrospect it enabled
 much more research than would have been possible otherwise.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I found a great collaborator in Aude Hofleitner, who inspired me to combine
 machine learning with traffic research.
 Aude's sophisticated models were stepping stones for the research in Chapter
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chapter:kdd"

\end_inset

, and her passion combined with a no-nonsense approach have always been
 a driving force in the lab and for me in particular.
 Without our invigorating and fruitful exchanges, this thesis would permeate
 with preposterous nonsense about traffic.
 Aude approaches everything in life with an amazing energy, and I am glad
 I could meet her both on and around the campus.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Life would have been quite different without the friendship of so many great
 people, from which Jack Reilly and Samitha Samaranayake stand in particular.
 Early work-related discussions would drift into late night musings and
 further later into ski trips to nearby Lake Tahoe.
 We always ended up meeting again in the most peculiar places (Tunisia,
 Switzerland), and I hope this pattern will continue in the future.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The crowd of the basement (Bakers), first floor (Gates), fourth floor (Soda)
 and seventh floor (Sutardja Dai Hall), you made my day so many times.
 I wish to thank in particular (in alphabetical order): Leah Anderson, Adam
 Coates, Orianna DeMasi, Maria Eckstein, Ahmed El-Alaoui, Shiry Ginosar,
 Woody Hoburg, Judy Hoffman, Thibaud Hottelier, Sergey Karayev, Walid Krichène,
 Stéphanie Lefèvre, Antonio Lupher, Alan Malek, Teodor Moldovan, Thomas
 Pumir, David Shinazi, Virginia Smith, Ameet Talwalkar, Jérôme Thai, Cathy
 Wu, and Matei Zaharia.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The floppy discs (with a k): you were great.
 It was a pleasure to fly the Frisbee with you every Tuesday.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The whole gang, thank you for the lubrication.
 You know who you are, and you know drinking is unhealthy, but by Bacchus,
 why stop such a merry predicament?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Countless thanks to A.-M.
 B.
 for weathering my soliloquies throughout these years.
 G., you have changed my life.
 I hope our paths will cross again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Last but not least, my thoughts go to all my friends, who shared their lives
 across continents, and whose unwavering support brought joy across all
 these years, in particular Elói Pereira, François-Fabien Fehrani and Patti
 Lee.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The author wishes to thank the not-so-anonymous reviewers for their critical
 suggestions on the draft on the thesis: Jack Reilly and Samitha Samaranayake
 for the introduction and the acknowledgments, Caroline Falck for her eagle
 eye on the overall manuscript.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
