#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
epigraph{A famous citation}{A famous author}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Sensor fusion.
 
\series default
The integration of sensors and data, the increase in data volume, the decrease
 in costs is transforming most physical systems.
 The digital world is pervasively invading all aspects of manufacturing
 and sensing.
 Nowadays, every significant system collects enormous amounts of informations
 about its inner state.
 This information however is usually collected on a ad-hoc basis and does
 not fullfill the requirements that one would like in terms of coverage,
 signal-to-noise ratio.
 In other terms, its relevance to the monitoring task is indirect, unlike
 a gauge that measures the level of gas in a tank.
 For these cyberphysical systems, the reconstruction of the inner state
 has to be done by merging massive streams of data.
 We present here an application of these in the realm of civil engineering:
 the case of estimating traffic in a city.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Arterial traffic.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Talk about real-time state estimation at scale.
 Here is an example in traffic.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Data driven inference.

\series default
 Consider that we want to build some model of the traffic phenomenon.
 The ultimate goal is to use the measurements currently at hand to build
 a function that given new (unseen) data, provides some estimate of the
 state of the system, and some validation of this state.
 This function often have a fixed structure and some parameters that depend
 on this particular structure that can be tuned given some data.
 This includes some physical model where the physical constants have to
 be calibrated, some statistical model in which the statistical parameters
 have to be adjusted to best match the observations, etc.
 Another approach is to assume that all observations are points in some
 arbitratry space, and that their distribution can be described in terms
 of these data points only.
 This is the non-parametric approach, which we will not consider here.
 There are two ways to approach the problem of building a model, which relate
 into how much the existing data at hand play a role in elaborating a structure:
 a statistical approach and a first principle approach.
 These two ways are complementary.
 In the statistical approach, the data is used to prescribe a structure,
 which is then tuned using this data.
 In the first principle approach, the scientist has some additional knowledge
 about the general laws that govern the phenomenon, such as the law of physics,
 some particular assumptions about speed, people's behaviour, etc.
 Based on these laws, some general patterns can describe the phenomenon.
 For example, if cars on a highway were represented as a continuous fluid,
 then the treatment of highways through fluid dynamics will predict shockwaves,
 traffic jams around intersections, etc.
 without having seen data.
 One could argue that with enough information and computing power, one could
 in principle select a set of optimal statistical model that could predict
 (but not explain) the most minute details of the phenomenon.
 In the other hand, with the perfect knowledge of the conditions and a rigorous
 derivation that takes into account all the experimental flaws, the first
 principle approach could full predict the data collected.
 In practice, due to our ignorance of some important parts of the experiments,
 we need to make some simplifying assumptions in a model and compensate
 by inferring some constants from the data.
 Also, given a data-driven approach, our prior knowledge of the phenomenon
 will influence our choice of variable (representation problem), and give
 us some insight about the structure of dependencies between these variables.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We describe here a big problem that is driven by data.
 The classical approach is to look first for first principles and then deduce
 some facts based these principles, and then pick a problem that one can
 solve based on these facts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our approach will focus on extracting structure from data.
 In the case of traffic, there is a wealth of research focused on explaining
 observations based on first principles (more on that later).
 Our data exploration will be motivated by the general physical principals
 behind the phenomenon.
 However, it will not try to 
\emph on
explain
\emph default
 as much as 
\emph on
predict
\emph default
 the future or the unobserved data.
 In particural, some very strong simplifying assumptions will be made, and
 justified only by the power of the prediction they let us make.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, we present first some exploration of the dataset that will motivate
 the subsequent models.
 The facts obtained from this analysis show that a simple approach can lead
 already to some substantial results.
 This is the first chapter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are different trade-offs possible to build an estimation system.
 We explore different trade offs, and we propose to solve the problem of
 traffic.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Such systems are only interesting in the sense that they can lead to computable
 models that perform inference at fast enough a rate.
 We present some new paradigms to perform these computations in the third
 chapter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Pipeline.

\series default
 In this data-intensive task, the final output looks like a complete pipeline
 separated in multiple stages, each of the stages being responsible for
 a separate task.
 Our traffic pipeline is decomposed in the steps shown in figure XXXX.
 We will focus on the step in BLUE in the pipeline.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Diversity in GPS data.

\series default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The rest of this discussion will be decomposed as the following.
 In a first chapter, we will study how to recover travel time informations
 from GPS data.
 In today's world, there are different characteristics in the data.
 This is why we are going to explore two possible scenarios:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A first scenario in which we have a lot of sparse GPS data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A second scenario in which we have more high-frequency data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In both cases, we want to work at the scale of the city, and we will highlight
 the contributions towards scaling the problem to very large metropolis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The final model will be presented in the last chapter.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
