#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 0
\use_mathdots 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%%stopskip
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:kdd_conclusion"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The state of the art for travel time estimation has focused on either precise
 and computationally intensive physical models, or large scale, data-driven
 approaches.
 We have presented a novel algorithm for travel time estimation that aims
 at combining the best of both worlds, by combining physical insights with
 some scalable algorithms.
 We model the variability of travel times due to stops at intersections
 using a Stop-Go model (to detect stops) and a HMM to learn the spatial
 dependencies between stop locations.
 We also take into account the spatio-temporal correlations of travel times
 due to driving behavior or congestion, using a Gaussian Markov Random Fields.
 In particular, we present a highly scalable algorithm to train and perform
 inference on Gaussian Markov Random Fields, when applied on geographs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We analyze the accuracy of the model using probe vehicle data collected
 over the Bay Area of San Francisco, CA.
 The results underline the importance to take into account the multi-modality
 of travel times in arterial networks due to the presence of traffic signals.
 The quality of the results we obtain are competitive with the state of
 the state of the art in traffic, and also highlight the good scalability
 of our algorithm.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
