#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\begin_preamble
 \setlength{\intextsep}{0cm plus1cm minus1cm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions and future work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:results"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have presented a novel class of algorithms to track moving vehicles on
 a road network: the 
\emph on
path inference filter
\emph default
.
 This algorithm first projects the raw points onto candidate projections
 on the road network and then builds candidate trajectories to link these
 candidate points.
 An observation model and a driver model are then combined in a Conditional
 Random Field to find the most probable trajectories.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The algorithm exhibits robustness to noise as well as to the peculiarities
 of driving in urban road networks.
 It is competitive over a wide range of sampling rates (1 seconds to 2 minutes)
 and greatly outperforms intuitive deterministic algorithms.
 Furthermore, given a set of ground truth data, the filter can be automatically
 tuned using a fast supervised learning procedure.
 Alternatively, using enough regular GPS data with no ground truth, it can
 be trained using unsupervised learning.
 Experimental results show that the unsupervised learning procedure compares
 favorably against learning from ground truth data.
 One may conclude that given enough observations, there no need to collect
 expensive high-frequency data to train a model.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This algorithm supports a range of trade-offs between accuracy, timeliness
 and computing needs.
 In its most accurate settings, it extends the current state of the art
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "zheng2011weight,yuan2010interactive"

\end_inset

.
 This result is supported by the theoretical foundations of Conditional
 Random Fields.
 Because no standardized benchmark exists, the authors have released an
 open-source implementation of the filter to foster comparison with other
 methodologies using other datasets 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "pythonimpl"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In conjunction with careful engineering, this program can achieve high map-match
ing throughput.
 The authors have written an industrial-strength version in the Scala programmin
g language, deployed in the 
\emph on
Mobile Millennium 
\emph default
system.
 This version maps GPS points at a rate of about 400 points per second on
 a single core for the San Francisco Bay area (several hundreds of thousands
 of road links), and has been scaled to multicore architecture to achieve
 an average throughput of several thousand points per second 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "hunter2011SOCC"

\end_inset

.
 This implementation has been successfully deployed in Stockholm and Sacramento
 as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A number of extensions could be considered to the core framework.
 In particular, more detailed models of the driver behavior as well as algorithm
s for automatic feature selection should bring additional improvements in
 performance.
 Another line of research is the mapping of very sparse data (sampling intervals
 longer than two minutes).
 Although the filter already attempts to consider as few trajectories as
 possible, more aggressive pruning may be necessary in order to achieve
 good performance.
 Finally, the EM procedure presented for automatically tuning the algorithm
 requires large amounts of data to be effective, and could be tested on
 larger datasets that what we have presented here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The authors wish to thank the staff at the California Center for Innovative
 Transportation, in particular Ryan Herring and Saneesh Apte, for their
 dedicated support.
 Discussions with Samitha Samarayanake have been instrumental in the writing
 this article.
 The authors are indebted to Warren Hoburg, and Kailin Kroetz for their
 thorough and insightful comments on the draft.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
